Gemini Robotics-ER 1.6 - Model Card — Google DeepMind
Skip to main content
Published 20 April 2026
Gemini Robotics-ER 1.6
View PDF version
Model Cards are intended to provide essential information on Gemini models, including known limitations, mitigation approaches, and safety performance. Model cards may be updated from time-to-time; for example, to include updated evaluations as the model is improved or revised.
Published: April 2026
Model Information
Implementation and Sustainability
Intended Usage and Limitations
Ethics and Safety
Model Information
Description
Gemini Robotics-ER (Embodied Reasoning) 1.6 is a Vision-Language-Model that enhances Gemini’s spatial and physical reasoning capabilities. It is based on Gemini 3.0 Flash.
Text strings (e.g., a question, a prompt, document(s) to be summarized), images, audio, and video files, with a token context window of up to 128k.
Text, with a 64K token output.
Architecture
Architecture: Gemini Robotics-ER 1.6 is based on the Gemini 3.0 model family. For more information about the model architecture, see the Gemini 3.0 Flash
Training Dataset
Gemini Robotics-ER 1.6 was trained on Gemini 3.0 training datasets and additional datasets representing various embodied reasoning tasks. For more information about the training data, see the Gemini 3.0 Flash
Training Data Processing
For more information about the training data processing, see the Gemini 3.0 Flash
Implementation and Sustainability
Gemini Robotics-ER 1.6 was trained using
Google’s Tensor Processing Units
(TPUs). See details in the Gemini 3.0 Flash
The efficiencies gained through the use of TPUs are aligned with Google's
commitment to operate sustainably
Software JAX (Bradbury et al., 2018), ML Pathways (Dean, 2021).
See Figure1, Figure 2 in the
release post
for Gemini Robotics-ER 1.6 evaluation procedures and Figure 3 for Gemini Robotics Safety evaluation procedures.
See Figure 1, Figure 2 in the
release post
for Gemini Robotics-ER 1.6 evaluation results, and Figure 3 for Gemini Robotics Safety evaluation results.
Intended Usage and Limitations
Benefit and Intended Usage
Gemini Robotics-ER 1.6 represents an advancement to our reasoning-first Gemini Robotics-ER models that enables robots to understand their environments with precision. This model specializes in reasoning critical for robotics, including visual and spatial understanding, task planning and success detection.
Known Limitations
For more information about the known limitations for Gemini Robotics-ER1.6, see the Gemini 3.0 Flash
Acceptable Usage
For information about the acceptable usage for Gemini Robotics-ER1.6 see the Gemini 3.0 Flash
. Additionally, users are required to use discretion before using the Robotics Models in a production, commercial, or public environments, and to not use the Robotics Models for safety-critical applications or work, such as in the following settings: (i) healthcare, (ii) transportation, or (iii) other areas where safety protocols are vital, and a malfunction could reasonably foreseeably lead to death, personal injury, or property damage.
Ethics and Safety
Ethical Considerations & Risks
Previous impact assessment and risk analysis work as discussed in (
Gemini ER1.5 report
) and references therein remain relevant to Gemini Robotics. See Section 6 for information on responsible development and safety mitigations.
Gemini Robotics-ER 1.6 demonstrates compliance with
Gemini safety policies
on adversarial spatial reasoning tasks, and shows a substantially improved capacity to adhere to physical safety constraints compared to previous generations. To ensure real-world readiness, we tested how well the model identifies safety hazards in
human-centric scenarios
Latest model cards
Gemini 3.1 Pro
Gemini 3.1 Flash Image
Gemini 3.1 Flash-Lite
Gemini 3.1 Flash Live
Veo 3.1 Lite